Welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
We’re so happy you could join us.
In the next hour,
we’ll learn why putting Jehovah’s will
ahead of our own interests improves our life
and protects us from harm.
We all appreciate being recognized by others.
In an interview,
we’ll see why recognition
from Jehovah brings the most joy.
Are you a young person
looking to start a career?
If so, you’ll appreciate learning
how two young Witnesses
found work to support themselves
in their ministry.
And we’ll see how husbands and wives
can work as a team
to increase the love and peace in marriage.
This is the March 2025 edition
of JW Broadcasting.
Our theme this month is
“Keep Seeking Great Things for Jehovah.”
It’s based on some powerful advice
that Jehovah gave to a man named Baruch.
Who was Baruch?
What can his example teach us?
And how can the divine counsel
he received help us today?
Let’s find out.
Baruch was a faithful servant of Jehovah.
He appears in the Bible book of Jeremiah
about the year 625 B.C.E.
Let’s start our journey
by reading Jeremiah 45:1:
“This is the word that Jeremiah the prophet
“spoke to Baruch the son of Neriah
“when he wrote in a book
these words dictated by Jeremiah
“in the fourth year
of Jehoiakim son of Josiah,
the king of Judah.”
Baruch served
as Jeremiah’s personal secretary.
The two worked closely together
for some 18 years,
including after the destruction
of Jerusalem in 607 B.C.E.
That was certainly
a special privilege of service
during a very challenging time.
But why did Jeremiah need an assistant?
For some 23 years,
Jeremiah had been conveying a message
of judgment and hope
to God’s people in Judah.
In the year 625 B.C.E.,
it seems that Jeremiah
had been barred from the temple area
where Jehovah’s message was to be read.
At that time, Jehovah asked Jeremiah
to write His warnings in a scroll.
That’s where Baruch,
a scribe (or, secretary),
comes into the picture.
He wrote in a scroll
all the words that Jehovah had spoken
through Jeremiah up until that time
—23 years’ worth!
The following year, when the time came
for the contents of that scroll
to be read aloud in the temple courtyard,
Jeremiah asked Baruch to deliver the message.
Again, Baruch did just so.
What happened next?
When the princes of Judah
heard what Baruch had done,
they wanted to hear the message firsthand.
So Baruch read it out loud again.
“As soon as they heard [it],”
the account says
“they looked at one another in dread.”
They told Baruch: “We must certainly tell
the king all these words.”
Before doing so, they warned Baruch:
“Go and hide yourselves, you and Jeremiah,
and do not let anyone know where you are.”
Wicked King Jehoiakim was hot with anger!
He burned the scroll
and ordered that Jeremiah
and Baruch be arrested.
Now, let’s pause and think.
From what we’ve considered so far,
what can we learn from Baruch?
First, he was humble.
Many scholars believe that he belonged
to a prominent scribal family.
Yet, when the invitation came
to help Jeremiah,
Baruch “proceeded to do according to all
that Jeremiah the prophet had commanded him.”
Like you, brothers and sisters,
Baruch was happy to support Jehovah’s work
and to do whatever was asked of him.
He did not let his family status
or personal goals distract him.
Because he was humble,
he put Jehovah’s will first in his life.
Baruch also demonstrated endurance.
Do you think putting 23 years’ worth
of divine messages in writing took some time?
Of course.
Baruch didn’t have a modern tool,
such as a smartphone, tablet, or computer.
It was a lot of manual work.
And imagine Baruch’s shock
when the king burned up the first scroll.
That was Jehovah’s message.
That was the scroll that Baruch
had written by hand
—hours of work up in smoke!
Jeremiah 36:32 says:
“Jeremiah then took another scroll
and gave it to Baruch . . . ,
“and at Jeremiah’s dictation
“he wrote on it all the words of the scroll
“that King Jehoiakim of Judah
had burned in the fire.
And many more words like those were added.”
Like Baruch, we too need endurance
to stick to our sacred work
when there are challenges.
Consider, too, Baruch’s courage.
He must have known how dangerous
it would be to work with Jeremiah.
Earlier, the same king
that burned up the scroll
killed another prophet of Jehovah,
Urijah, by the sword.
But Baruch fearlessly used his
professional skills and contacts
to support Jehovah’s prophet.
There’s so much we can learn
from this God-fearing man
who demonstrated humility,
endurance, and courage.
Jehovah loved Baruch, and so do we.
Of course, Baruch, like us,
confronted negative thoughts and feelings.
There was one challenge
that could have cost him dearly.
What was it?
Let’s continue the reading
at Jeremiah 45:2, 3.
And please note
Jehovah’s personal interest in Baruch.
Jeremiah 45:2, 3 says:
“This is what Jehovah the God of Israel says
“concerning you, Baruch,
“‘You have said: “Woe to me,
“‘“for Jehovah has added grief to my pain!
“‘“I am weary from my groaning,
and I have found no resting-place.”’”
Why was Baruch feeling like that?
Was he getting tired of his assignment
or perhaps the circumstances
in which he had to perform it?
Let’s keep reading verses 4 and 5:
“You should say to him,
“‘This is what Jehovah says:
“‘“Look! What I have built up
“‘“I am tearing down,
“‘“and what I have planted I am uprooting
“‘“—the entire land.
“‘“But you are seeking
great things for yourself.
“‘“Stop seeking such things.
“‘For I am about to bring
a calamity on all flesh,”
“‘declares Jehovah, “and wherever you may go,
I will grant you your life as a spoil.”’”
What reason did Jehovah give
for Baruch’s feelings?
It was not the assignment itself
or even his circumstances.
In verse 5, Jehovah said:
“You are seeking great things for yourself.”
Think about that.
It was Baruch’s own view
of what seemed great or most important.
For a time, he was focused
on “seeking great things” for himself.
What do you think
those “great things” could have been?
Was it a desire for fame or prestige?
Was he sensing
that his support for God’s prophet
was putting at risk his position and career?
Or did the “great things”
have to do with getting more money,
property, or some material possessions?
We don’t know,
but Baruch knew what they were.
And Jehovah’s counsel was clear:
“Stop seeking such things.”
It seems Baruch
took Jehovah’s counsel to heart.
I imagine him reasoning something like this:
‘Jehovah knows my thoughts and feelings.
‘Have I really been seeking
great things for myself?
‘It’s true.
‘Jehovah is always right.
‘My desires got the better of me,
‘and I was so distressed!
‘But Jehovah is kindly telling me:
“Baruch, be realistic.
‘“A divine judgment is coming.
‘Everything that seems so stable
will be uprooted.”
‘Material things, property,
money, or a prominent career
‘—it’s all temporary.
‘Seeking those things is dangerous.
‘Jehovah wants me and others
‘to survive the coming calamity.
‘And that’s what I want.
I need to get back to seeking
great things for Jehovah!’
Well, that’s just a possibility
of how Baruch might have been thinking.
But did he accept and follow the counsel?
Yes!
During the Babylonian siege of Jerusalem,
about 17 years later,
Baruch appears again in the inspired record,
supporting Jeremiah.
And though many others died
during the catastrophic
destruction of Jerusalem,
Baruch and Jeremiah survived.
Baruch’s humble response
to Jehovah’s counsel
saved his life.
And such a response to divine counsel
can do the same for us.
I’m sure, as you think more about Baruch,
you’ll see other ways
we can benefit from his example.
But let’s briefly discuss
one particular challenge that some of us
might be facing right now
and how Baruch’s experience can help.
The challenge:
being balanced while providing materially
for ourselves and our families.
In today’s world,
many people
are “seeking great things” for themselves
as they pursue
secular education and secular work.
Many believe that the key to success
and the key
to their and their family’s happiness
involves money
and getting more material things,
or a “resting-place,”
in this system of things.
Such thinking could influence us.
If you’re a family head, consider Chibisa.
He’s a brother in Malawi
who, along with his wife and seven children,
was doing well spiritually.
However, at one point,
they faced financial problems.
At times, there was not enough money
to buy food for each day.
How stressful!
Like many others, Chibisa decided
to go to South Africa to find work.
That was a personal decision.
But was it wise?
Looking back, Chibisa said this:
“This affected me spiritually
“because I did not know the language,
“I was unable to preach,
and I did not benefit from the meetings.
“Being so far from my family
“caused me to neglect
my responsibility as a family head.
“As a result,
my family grew weak spiritually
“and we all missed each other very much.
“I realized that I had made
a wrong decision going abroad.
My conscience started to trouble me greatly.”
You parents must also make personal decisions
about secular education for your children.
Naturally, you want them
to get a good education.
But you have to think carefully
about potential dangers.
For example, in some countries,
parents send their young children
away to boarding schools.
The March 15, 1997, issue of The Watchtower
discussed the Scriptural principles involved
and related a number of experiences
highlighting the dangers.
A brother named Clement said
that before going away to boarding school,
he loved the truth
and enjoyed participating in the ministry,
in family worship, and at meetings.
“However,” he said,
“once I went into boarding school
at the age of 14,
“I left the truth completely.
“Throughout the five years
I spent in boarding school,
“I never attended meetings.
“As a result of bad company,
I got involved with drugs,
smoking, and heavy drinking.”
Let’s consider one more situation.
You younger Christians approaching adulthood
must make decisions involving
education and employment.
There may be many choices.
But which ones will help you
live up to your dedication to Jehovah?
One sister said this:
“As a baptized Witness,
I had read and heard
“about the dangers
of pursuing university education,
“but I dismissed such warnings.
I thought the counsel did not apply to me.”
Well, our sister
made her personal choice in the matter.
But was it a wise one?
She continues:
“Studying for my courses
took so much time and effort
“that I was too busy
“to linger in prayer to Jehovah
the way I used to,
“too exhausted to enjoy
Bible discussions with others,
“and too tired
to prepare well for the meetings.
“Thankfully, once I realized
that being immersed in higher education
“was damaging my relationship with Jehovah,
“I knew I had to stop.
And I did.”
Of what do these
real-life examples remind us?
In Satan’s system of things,
we will face challenges
that test our determination
to put Jehovah’s will first in our lives.
Like Baruch,
personal desires could distract us.
If that ever happens,
we need to take quick action
to correct our viewpoint, as did Baruch.
Happily, through the Bible
and spiritual instruction
from the faithful slave,
Jehovah helps us make
better choices in personal areas of life,
such as those involving
secular education and secular work.
At Psalm 32:8, he promises:
“I will give you insight
and instruct you in the way you should go.
I will give you advice with my eye upon you.”
We are wise to seek out
such advice by doing research,
by talking to mature Christians,
and then applying such counsel.
Chibisa did that.
After moving to South Africa,
his conscience started bothering him
and he remembered the example of Baruch.
Chibisa said this:
“Baruch may have wanted
to pursue material riches as I had.
“When he was helped, he returned.
“I decided then to put Jehovah in first place
“instead of searching for material things.
“So I started to make changes to go home
and help my family spiritually.
“When I left South Africa
and reached the border of Malawi . . . ,
“I felt great happiness in my heart,
“and I am still happy . . .
“Studying the Bible has helped me.
“We still encounter financial problems,
“but I remember that in Satan’s world,
“there is nowhere we can go
and have no problems. . . .
“My family is progressing spiritually.
“And this makes me very happy,
because my relationship
with Jehovah is strong.”
Like Baruch,
Chibisa was humble and courageous.
And we know those same qualities
characterize you, brothers and sisters!
So when Jehovah, our loving Father,
gives us timely advice,
as he did to his close friend Baruch,
let’s take it to heart.
Let’s do whatever it takes
to make sure we and our families
continue “seeking first the Kingdom
and [God’s] righteousness.”
And never forget,
as we continue to seek
great things for Jehovah,
he’ll continue to do great things
for us and our families!
Yes, it’s his blessing
that makes us truly rich,
“and he adds no pain with it.”
Have you ever felt unseen
in a theocratic assignment
or forgotten about when
you’re no longer in it?
If so, you’ll appreciate
how a brother named Avinash
along with the Cotterell family
adjusted their thinking.
Note how they found joy
in seeking recognition from Jehovah
rather than from others.
I worked in an office
in the financial district.
I enjoyed everything about working there
—passing these tall skyscrapers,
institutions with big names.
In terms of what I wanted from life,
at that time, it was great.
Spiritually, it was not the best at all.
You have to make yourself stand out.
That really, you know,
affected my personality.
I didn’t even realize it at the time.
I was pioneering, and I decided
to apply for Bethel and was accepted.
My assignment was to do cleaning.
And from my background, that kind of work
was something that was looked down on.
It’s not something you would choose to do.
I was used to an environment
where if you did well,
you could move to the next step
and you’d be recognized for it.
And this was the case for me
—that I derived so much value
from these external things, these privileges,
and being set apart from others.
I thrived on that commendation, both at work
and in the congregation.
So when you don’t get it,
then you feel lost a little bit.
Other brothers were getting more recognition,
and that just played in my head a little bit.
The spiritual environment in Bethel
has taught me and is teaching me
that our value has nothing to do
with the privileges that we enjoy.
When we feed off the recognition from men,
it’s almost like we’re chasing the next,
you know, the next compliment
or the next praise.
You can always feel like
you’re chasing happiness.
But, you know, switching my thinking
to thinking about Jehovah’s recognition
gives you more peace; it’s more sustainable.
And it really helped me to see
that no matter what circumstances I’m in,
I can be happy; I can be joyful.
It’s been good molding, yeah.
Sandy and I got married in 2003.
Sandy was pioneering back then,
and I was happy to support her.
Then we found out
that we were expecting a baby.
We were really excited.
I still was hoping that after
I had the baby,
I would be able to continue pioneering.
That was the plan anyway.
We just thought to ourselves:
‘We can grow them up.
They can serve Jehovah and go to Bethel.’
It’s all the stuff
that you’d want your child to do.
One day very late on in the pregnancy,
I received a phone call from Sandy.
She was rushed into hospital
for an emergency cesarean
and everything changed.
We’re so glad that he made it through,
and thankfully, he survived.
Later on, we found out that he had
severe brain damage.
We had to learn
how to operate medical machinery;
we had to learn what a syringe was;
we had to learn so much stuff
that we never even had to think about before.
So I used to feel like,
‘Why is our path to get to the new world
harder than other brothers and sisters?’
I felt isolated and lonely
because I felt that no one understood
what I was going through
and what it felt like.
No one around me was in my situation.
We really enjoyed the assemblies.
Like, we would sit near the front, didn’t we?
So we could concentrate.
So that we could focus on what was going on.
Then all of a sudden, Eden is born.
We’re at the back—right at the back!
Yeah.
It was very, very hard to accept
that although I wanted to be somewhere
at a certain time spiritually, that it was—
It just wasn’t going to happen because I was
in a completely different situation.
Eden now has a little sister,
Angel, who is also a blessing from Jehovah.
Although our goals in life changed
and we might not be able to do
as much as we used to do,
we know that Jehovah
is really appreciative of everything
that we do.
And as a family,
we have set a goal
of being out in the ministry together
at least once a month.
It takes a lot to get Eden ready
—a lot of preparation
and a lot of medication.
And there are a lot of hidden things
that the congregation doesn’t see.
We know that Jehovah has seen us
struggling in the evenings;
he’s looking at the sleepless nights.
He can help you
to cope, to be happy with small blessings.
I don’t do it every day, but I try
to write down what I’m grateful for,
what Jehovah has given me.
And this really helps me
not only to be focused
but to have more appreciative prayers
to Jehovah about what he’s doing for me now.
We know that Jehovah values our family.
Isn’t it comforting to know
Jehovah recognizes our whole-souled service,
even when it feels like others don’t?
Many of us need to work to support ourselves,
but finding the type of work
that allows us to serve Jehovah
whole-souled may be challenging.
Let’s see how Bible principles influenced
the career decisions of two young publishers.
Why was it difficult to choose a career?
Most in my family have a university degree.
Some are lawyers, engineers,
accountants, and so on.
So they expected me
to go to university as well.
They told me:
“We don’t have a doctor in the family yet.
We think you should study medicine.”
When I was 16,
I was about to leave high school.
Many of my schoolmates
were planning to study at university
and would say things like:
“I want to go to this school.
Which one are you going to?”
I felt a lot of pressure
to get a higher education.
My teachers told me
that I needed to continue my studies
if I really wanted to make money.
I wanted to be a teacher,
but there was so much pressure from my family
to study something that would
allow me to have a higher salary.
There were times when I felt
overwhelmed because of the pressure.
Even after I graduated from high school,
a teacher contacted me
to make sure that I was planning
to go to university and, in his words,
“actually become someone in this world.”
I started
a six-year psychology degree at university.
And at the same time, I was studying
for a teacher’s certificate on the weekends.
And on top of all of that,
I was working part-time.
I was trying to do everything.
What helped you make a good decision?
I spoke with my mom about what I should do.
She helped me
to think about some of the dangers
I would be exposed to at university,
things that could endanger me
in a spiritual sense.
After about two years, it became clear
that I couldn’t continue
with such a busy routine.
I needed to make a change.
I remembered some advice I got from a friend.
He had studied to become an accountant
when he was young,
but now he sells chilies.
He jokingly said,
“So now I’m counting chilies,
so I guess you could say
that it is what I studied.”
He explained that many people end up in jobs
that have nothing to do
with their university degree.
Philippians 1:10 helped me.
It says that we should
“make sure of the more important things.”
I knew that finding a job was important,
but it was more important
that I had time for Jehovah.
I’ve always loved Jehovah’s promise
at Matthew 6:33,
where he says that he will
make sure we have what we need
if we keep “seeking first the Kingdom
and his righteousness.”
I had already seen this promise
come true in my life,
so I trusted that Jehovah
would continue to provide for me.
I knew that if I studied at university,
I would be losing valuable time
during my youth
—time that I could be using for Jehovah.
Sometimes we have many
different options in front of us,
or we know that we need to adjust our course.
That’s when looking to Bible principles
can help us to choose the right path.
My father has a barbershop,
and he offered to teach me
how to be a barber.
My parents told me,
“People will always need a haircut.”
So even though I knew
I wouldn’t be making millions as a barber,
it was work that would always be in demand.
I decided to leave university
halfway through my degree
and look for part-time teaching work.
During that time, I prayed so much,
asking Jehovah to bless my decision.
What benefits have come from your decisions?
I’m my own boss.
I work in a barbershop
and also travel to people’s homes
and give them haircuts.
I have the freedom to decide
the days and hours that I work.
Jehovah answered my prayers.
I was able to find part-time work
teaching at a school,
which allows me
to be in the full-time service
along with my husband.
Because of the flexibility
I have with my work,
I enjoy opportunities to participate
in construction projects
for the organization.
I’ve seen clearly that by focusing
on what’s most important,
Jehovah has blessed me.
I continue to see the fulfillment
of Matthew 6:33 in my life.
Jehovah has always provided what I needed.
If you’re having trouble
choosing the right type of work,
consider talking to others
about how they chose jobs
that allow them to actively serve Jehovah.
Most important, pray.
Share your feelings with Jehovah.
Tell him about your needs,
goals, and preferences.
Remember, no one
is more interested in providing
for you materially
and spiritually than Jehovah.
Among those who benefit
from turning to Jehovah
for direction are missionaries.
This episode of Our History in Motion
shows how Jehovah
has used self-sacrificing missionaries
to spearhead the global preaching work
“to the most distant part of the earth.”
“You will be witnesses of me . . .
to the most distant part of the earth.”
Nearly 2,000 years ago,
Jesus laid the groundwork
for true missionary service.
Since then, how have others
answered the call to serve as a missionary?
That’s the subject of this episode
of Our History in Motion.
In the first-century,
Paul, Barnabas, Mark, and others
traveled extensively
to bring the good news to people
and rejoiced as they saw them respond.
Jehovah’s people
have continued this mission today
with the same zeal,
tireless dedication, and joy.
C. T. Russell and J. F. Rutherford
were missionaries themselves.
Both traveled to distant lands,
such as the Philippines, France,
Greece, Egypt, Israel, and India.
Their goal was to reach as many as possible
with the wonderful Kingdom message.
Their fine example
led others to reach out and do the same.
In 1922, William R. Brown,
who had been preaching
throughout the Caribbean,
wrote to Brother Rutherford:
“I have given the witness
“throughout the majority
of the Caribbean Islands . . .
Should I go over them again?”
Brother Rutherford’s reply:
“Proceed to Sierra Leone, West Africa.”
And that’s just what he did.
Brother Brown and his family
served 27 years in West Africa,
always emphasizing
the importance of the Bible,
which aptly earned him
the name “Bible” Brown.
When looking back
over many decades of faithful service,
how did Brother Brown feel?
He said: “What a joy it is
to see men and women
“becoming obedient
to the good news of God’s Kingdom! . . .
“It is one of the highest privileges
“that can be offered to a human creature,
to be an ambassador of Jehovah!”
In July of 1926,
George Wright and Edwin Skinner
left London on a boat
headed to Bombay, India,
now known as Mumbai.
There these brothers
set up a small branch office
to oversee the preaching work.
To spread the Kingdom message,
the two brothers would split up.
One traveled deep into the land
while the other stayed back
to care for the branch office matters.
By 1938, a great witness
had been given all throughout the land.
Twenty-four congregations were established,
literature was translated
and then distributed,
public meetings were arranged,
and the good news
was even delivered by radio.
But then came World War II.
And in over 50 nations,
the work of Jehovah’s Witnesses
was restricted.
The door appeared to be closing
for accepting missionaries
in many parts of the earth.
From a human standpoint,
it could have seemed wise
to pause the missionary work.
But Jehovah knew better!
In September 1942,
Nathan Knorr, full of faith,
proposed the establishment
of a school to train missionaries.
The first class
of the Watchtower Bible College of Gilead
began on a winter day
in upstate New York in 1943.
And the timing turned out to be just right.
As World War II ended,
the door began opening back up
and a global opportunity
awaited future missionaries.
Looking back, Gilead has had
a huge impact on our worldwide growth.
For example, in 1949,
Japan reported
less than ten local publishers.
Shortly thereafter, in 1950, five sisters,
graduates of the 11th class of Gilead,
arrived in Japan.
Among them was Lois Dyer
—another missionary.
Over the next 30 years,
Lois would travel all throughout Japan,
bringing the good news to people
that were hungry for it.
By 1980, Lois watched
the publishers in Japan
grow from 12 to over 52,000.
How rewarding!
In 2024, some 214,000 publishers
preach the good news in Japan.
Gilead has trained
over 9,500 zealous Kingdom proclaimers
assigned to over 200 lands and island groups.
“I often think about Gilead,
“the effect that it has now
“not only on the field
“and on those that are going off
“in the missionary field
“but also the brothers as a whole.
“They have gone into these countries,
“and they have acclimated themselves;
“they are a part of that country.
“They’re just as much at home there
“(those who have been there for a while)
as the natives.
“And everyone that has had a part in it,
“either as a missionary
or those parents who have sent them off,
“they’re never going to forget that.
And I think that is a legacy
that will continue forever.”
The opportunities for missionary work
remain greater than ever.
For example, many graduates
from the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
are assigned as field missionaries.
Jehovah is still holding the door wide open.
Hundreds of classes
are held each year all around the world.
Have you considered applying?
The exciting adventure
of missionary service continues today
as thousands make themselves available
in imitation
of the greatest Missionary, Jesus Christ.
See you next time on Our History in Motion.
Would you like to imitate
the examples of missionaries?
If so, talk to an elder in your congregation
about your desire, start pioneering,
and later apply to the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers if you qualify.
Worship extends
beyond the ministry into our personal lives,
particularly within the home.
If you’re married,
note how you and your mate
can continue working together as a team
to maintain a happy marriage.
With so much that needs
to get done in a day,
every day,
married couples
can struggle to work together.
This often leads to separate game plans.
To truly be “one flesh,”
a couple needs to work together as a team.
And every team needs to have a goal.
Your goal should be
to have a loving relationship,
not just a lasting one.
When marriage mates aren’t teammates,
disagreements can turn
into fierce competition.
To illustrate this point,
imagine arguments are like a couple
playing tennis against each other.
Only one person can win.
But if you change your mindset
from thinking ‘What do I want?’
to ‘What do we want?,’
then you’re thinking as a team
and you’re able to overcome
the problem and win together.
Once you have the team mindset,
how do you work together
as a team practically?
Ask Jehovah God for his guidance
and to bless your efforts
to work together on the issue at hand.
As you pray,
talk to Jehovah about your shared desire
to have a happier marriage.
Talk to each other.
Discuss your strong points
and where you’re not so strong.
And see where you can
better support your partner.
Create a plan together
that you can both work toward.
When you think ‘What do we want?’
instead of ‘What do I want?’
and you pray, discuss your roles,
and make a plan,
you can have a happy marriage as a team.
Take a moment, pause the video,
and ask each other these three questions.
Remember, share your honest feelings
and openly express how you both feel.
We can be confident
that when we do things Jehovah’s way,
we’ll experience the best results possible.
While we always aim
to support Jehovah’s will,
could we impede it?
In the following morning worship,
hear Brother Splane
comment on how this could happen.
Now, this morning I’m going to focus
on the first words of our text.
It says: “The word of God is alive
and exerts power.”
“The word of God is alive.”
Now, there’s no question that this text
does apply to God’s written Word, the Bible.
But Jehovah had a Word.
God’s Word existed
even before the art of writing
was invented.
Now, how long before?
We don’t know.
At least as long as Jesus has been alive.
Before Jesus was alive, of course,
Jehovah had no one to speak to.
But now, with the creation of Jesus,
he and his Son could communicate.
Now, what is God’s word?
We’ve said that it’s
the “expression of [his] purpose.”
And that means that when Jehovah says
he’s going to do something,
it’s as good as done
and nothing and no one
can stand in the way.
But sometimes with the best of intentions,
we could actually get in the way
of a decision
or a project that Jehovah approves of.
Now, we have an example of this
in an event that happened
in the lives of Esau and Jacob.
Now, who was getting
in the way in that story?
The faithful man, Isaac.
After 20 years of marriage,
Isaac and Rebekah finally had two sons,
Esau and Jacob.
And we know that Esau was the firstborn.
And as The Watchtower  pointed out this week,
in patriarchal times
at the death of the father,
why, the firstborn
took the lead in the family.
He was the one who conducted family worship.
And he served as a sort of priest.
And that’s why the Bible speaks of priests
being present at Mount Sinai
before the Levitical priesthood was set up.
But Jehovah had told Rebekah
that Jacob was going to have
the firstborn’s position.
We don’t know if he told Isaac,
but he did tell Rebekah
that Jacob was going to have
the firstborn’s position.
So “the word” had gone out;
the “expression of God’s purpose”
had gone out.
Jacob would take precedence over Esau.
Could anyone challenge that?
When you consider what God’s purpose was,
Jacob was the right choice, wasn’t it?
Because what was God’s purpose?
It was to set up a nation of worshippers,
those who were going to worship Jehovah.
Now, between Esau and Jacob,
who was most likely to conduct family worship
with his children, his offspring?
Certainly Jacob.
Now, for the first 15 years of their lives,
Esau and Jacob
could probably have heard Abraham
talk about the promise
that God had given him,
that all of the families of the earth
were going to be blessed
by means of his offspring.
And no doubt Jacob realized
what a beautiful privilege it would be
to share in the fulfillment of that purpose.
Well, Rebekah loved the one
Jehovah loved most, Jacob.
Isaac loved Esau,
even after Esau
had married out of the truth twice.
Well, some in full-time service
have a brother or sister
who isn’t doing very well in the truth,
and yet he or she is the favorite.
Go figure.
Even parents in the truth
don’t always love the one Jehovah loves most.
Now, one day, Isaac had a conversation
with Esau, and it’s interesting.
Look at Genesis chapter 27.
We’re going to read verses 1-4,
and there are a couple of lessons here
that we’re going to consider.
Genesis chapter 27
—we’re going to read verses 1-4.
It says: “Now when Isaac was old
“and his eyes were too weak to see,
“he called Esau his older son to him
and said: ‘My son!’
“He replied: ‘Here I am!’
“And he went on to say:
‘I have now grown old.
“‘I do not know the day of my death.
“‘So at this time take, please, your weapons,
your quiver and your bow,
“‘and go out to the field
and hunt some wild game for me.
“‘Then make the kind of tasty dish
that I am fond of and bring it to me.
“‘Then I will eat it
so that I may bless you
before I die.’”
“Before I die.”
So Isaac was on his deathbed, right?
Wrong.
If you do the math,
you see that Isaac lived for 43 years
after he had that last meal.
But we can understand
why he felt that he was on his last legs
—because he was blind.
He couldn’t do what he used to do,
and so he probably thought
that his life was over.
And that could happen to any one of us.
You know, if we’re in constant pain
or we’re crippled,
well, we might think we’re finished.
So here’s the lesson:
No matter what your limitations are,
don’t give up on life.
Find out what you can do,
and then do what you can.
‘The dead can’t praise Jehovah,’
but you can as long as you’re alive.
And even if you get to the point
where all you can do is keep your integrity
and praise Jehovah, do that.
Don’t give up.
But now let’s get back
to the point we started with,
and that is, with the best of intentions,
we could get in the way of Jehovah’s purpose.
Now, Isaac was determined to bless Esau
and make Jacob his servant.
Isaac was getting in the way.
He was getting in the way
of Jehovah’s purpose.
It seems that later
Isaac realized his mistake
because when Jacob
was leaving to find a wife,
Jacob was told:
“God Almighty . . .
will give to you the blessing of Abraham.”
Isn’t that beautiful?
“God Almighty . . . will give to you
the blessing of Abraham”
tells you what kind of a man Isaac was.
He was a spiritual man.
Yes, he loved Esau more than Jacob.
And yes, he wanted Esau
to have the blessing.
But when Jehovah’s will became clear,
Isaac submitted.
The apostle Paul wrote:
‘By faith Isaac blessed Esau and Jacob.’
Well, now the application:
Would it be possible for us to get in the way
when Jehovah decides to do something
or when he approves a project
that maybe we don’t agree with?
It could happen.
The organization suggests a new way
to carry out the preaching work.
We tell our service group:
“That’ll never work here.
“Maybe it’ll work somewhere else
but not here.
We’re different.”
What about our building projects?
“Ramapo?
Why do we need Ramapo?
Armageddon is coming.”
In the late 1940’s,
when the decision was made
to expand world headquarters
at 124 Columbia Heights,
a few of the brothers took a dim view.
Why spend the time and the money
so close to the end?
Then, in 1953,
at the business meeting
of the Watchtower Society,
Brother Knorr read a letter from a sister.
Now, just for context, this is 1953.
And in those days, as I well recall,
some thought that Armageddon
was going to come 40 years from 1914.
We were doing a lot of counting back then.
So this sister writes
to Brother Knorr and says,
“Why are you spending
all this money on building projects
when Armageddon could come in 1954?”
Well, if we’d listened to her
and others like her,
where would we be today?
Still back at 124 Columbia Heights.
Speaking about our building programs,
Brother Knorr once made
a very profound statement.
It’s simple, but it’s profound.
He said: “We’re going to keep building.
Let Jehovah stop it
if he doesn’t agree with it.”
I think he could do that, couldn’t he?
Now, sometimes a body of elders
has a lively discussion
about some project or initiative.
Maybe it’s the need for a new Kingdom Hall.
And we may have our concerns.
We may have reservations.
We express those.
But if a number of spirit-directed men
are enthusiastically in favor of a project,
it’s very possible
that Jehovah agrees with it too.
So we wouldn’t want to get in the way,
and we wouldn’t want to be a naysayer.
You know, sometimes what happens
when we’re in a building project
is we have trouble with permitting;
we can’t get the permits
we need right away.
Or maybe a building inspector comes,
and he causes a lot of trouble.
And we wouldn’t want to be
the type of person who says,
“Well, this project
mustn’t have Jehovah’s blessing
because if it had Jehovah’s blessing,
everything would go smoothly.”
Tell that to Nehemiah
and the Jews in his day.
They had no end of trouble.
And yet, what they were doing
had Jehovah’s approval.
“The word of God
is alive and exerts power.”
When Jehovah has a purpose,
we see what we can do
to advance that purpose.
And if there’s nothing we can do,
we pray for it
and then we get out of the way.
It is truly faith-strengthening
to know that nothing can stop
the advancement of Jehovah’s purpose
and the many good gifts
he has in store for us.
This month’s music video
gives us something else to look forward to:
life on a paradise earth.
It’s called It Won’t Be Long.
Time keeps on ticking;
the years seem to fly.
I’m not getting younger;
from pain, I can’t hide.
But I know
it won’t be long.
I have lost loved ones
at times in my life,
And living without them
has been a hard fight.
But I know
it won’t be long.
And I will wake up tomorrow,
and life will be new.
The Kingdom has come,
and forever its rule over us will bring peace.
It won’t be long.
Friends and loved ones
we’re welcoming back.
Pain and sorrow
is all in the past.
Yes, I know
Jehovah’s will
will be done
in all the earth.
It won’t be long.
When I look at this world
and the days we’re in,
The time is reduced.
It is clear, my friend.
Yes, I know
it won’t be long.
So I try my best
to do what is right,
To make Jehovah
the purpose in my life,
’Cause I know
it won’t be long.
And I will wake up tomorrow,
and life will be new.
The Kingdom has come,
and forever its rule over us will bring peace.
It won’t be long.
Friends and loved ones
we’re welcoming back.
Pain and sorrow
is all in the past.
Yes, I know
Jehovah’s will
will be done
in all the earth.
It won’t be long.
Even if I don’t get to see
this old world pass away,
Safe I know I will be
in Jehovah’s memory.
And I will wake up tomorrow,
and life will be new.
The Kingdom has come,
and forever its rule over us will bring peace.
It won’t be long.
Friends and loved ones
will welcome me back.
Pain and sorrow
is all in the past.
Yes, I know
Jehovah’s will
will be done
in all the earth.
And we’ll see Paradise.
It won’t be long.
In this month’s program,
we learned from Baruch’s example
that putting Jehovah’s will
ahead of our own interests
improves our lives and protects us from harm.
We also learned that joy
comes from seeking Jehovah’s recognition,
how young people can make
good decisions when choosing a career,
and how married couples
can experience greater peace
by working together as a team.
This month’s postcard comes from Liberia.
Nestled on the coast of western Africa,
Liberia’s terrain
includes stunning landscapes,
sandy beaches,
rolling hills, and lush rainforests.
English is the official language,
spoken alongside
over 20 indigenous languages.
Liberia, which means “The Land of the Free,”
was established in 1821 as a safe haven
for freed slaves from the United States.
Over 60 years later,
the truth began to spread,
and with the help from missionaries,
the first congregation was formed in 1948.
From 1989 to 2003,
Liberia endured devastating civil wars
that affected thousands,
including our brothers and sisters.
Despite the hardship,
they stayed positive.
One brother who had to flee
his home three times said:
“These are the conditions we preach about;
we are living in the last days.”
Today, Jehovah’s Witnesses in Liberia
continue to see excellent results.
For example, the East Ganta Congregation,
with only 103 publishers,
had an impressive Memorial attendance
of 964 in 2024.
The brothers
had to meet in five different locations
to accommodate everyone.
In Robertsport,
local families highly respect the Bible
and often gather to hear the good news.
The Robertsport Congregation
sends their love and greetings
to the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.